README.md, before:

# 🎯 Habit Tracker

A beautiful and intuitive habit tracking application built with React and Vite. Track your daily habits, visualize your progress, and build consistent routines with an elegant neumorphic design.

![Habit Tracker](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19.2.0-blue)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-Rolldown-646CFF)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)

## ✨ Features

- 📊 **Visual Progress Tracking** - Track your habits with interactive charts and statistics
- 📅 **Calendar View** - See your habit completion history at a glance
- 🎨 **Customizable Habits** - Assign colors and personalize each habit
- 🔥 **Streak Counter** - Monitor your current and best streaks
- 📈 **Analytics Dashboard** - View completion rates and performance metrics
- 💾 **Local Storage** - All data saved locally in your browser
- 🎯 **Beautiful UI** - Modern neumorphic design with smooth animations

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sina-soroush/Habit-Tracker-React.git
cd Habit-Tracker-React
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## 🛠️ Built With

- **React** - UI library
- **Vite** - Build tool and dev server
- **Chart.js** - Data visualization
- **date-fns** - Date utility library
- **React-chartjs-2** - React wrapper for Chart.js

## 📦 Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

## 🎨 Features in Detail

### Habit Management
- Create custom habits with unique colors
- Mark habits as complete/incomplete
- Delete habits you no longer need

### Progress Visualization
- **Weekly Progress Chart** - Line chart showing daily completion trends
- **Habit Comparison** - Bar chart comparing completion rates across habits
- **Today's Completion** - Doughnut chart showing current day progress

### Statistics
- Total habit count
- Daily completion tracking
- 30-day average completion rate
- Most consistent habit highlighting

### Calendar View
- Monthly calendar display
- Visual indicators for completed habits
- Color-coded habit tracking

## 📱 Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive and works seamlessly on:
- Desktop computers
- Tablets
- Mobile devices

## 💾 Data Storage

All habit data is stored locally in your browser using LocalStorage. Your data never leaves your device, ensuring complete privacy.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the project
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## 👤 Author

**Sina Soroush**

- GitHub: [@sina-soroush](https://github.com/sina-soroush)
- Building modern web applications with React, Node.js, and exploring new technologies

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by modern habit tracking applications
- Neumorphic design principles
- React and Vite communities

Commit message:

Add project preview section to README
Added a preview section with a live demo link and image.

README.md, after:

# 🎯 Habit Tracker

A beautiful and intuitive habit tracking application built with React and Vite. Track your daily habits, visualize your progress, and build consistent routines with an elegant neumorphic design.

![Habit Tracker](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19.2.0-blue)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-Rolldown-646CFF)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)

## ✨ Features

- 📊 **Visual Progress Tracking** - Track your habits with interactive charts and statistics
- 📅 **Calendar View** - See your habit completion history at a glance
- 🎨 **Customizable Habits** - Assign colors and personalize each habit
- 🔥 **Streak Counter** - Monitor your current and best streaks
- 📈 **Analytics Dashboard** - View completion rates and performance metrics
- 💾 **Local Storage** - All data saved locally in your browser
- 🎯 **Beautiful UI** - Modern neumorphic design with smooth animations

## 🔗 Preview

You can view the live version of this project here:  
👉 https://habit-tracker-react-swart.vercel.app/

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Habit-Tracker-App" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5cfd6773-9270-492d-b1d6-ae6d2af42703" />

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sina-soroush/Habit-Tracker-React.git
cd Habit-Tracker-React
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## 🛠️ Built With

- **React** - UI library
- **Vite** - Build tool and dev server
- **Chart.js** - Data visualization
- **date-fns** - Date utility library
- **React-chartjs-2** - React wrapper for Chart.js

## 📦 Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

## 🎨 Features in Detail

### Habit Management
- Create custom habits with unique colors
- Mark habits as complete/incomplete
- Delete habits you no longer need

### Progress Visualization
- **Weekly Progress Chart** - Line chart showing daily completion trends
- **Habit Comparison** - Bar chart comparing completion rates across habits
- **Today's Completion** - Doughnut chart showing current day progress

### Statistics
- Total habit count
- Daily completion tracking
- 30-day average completion rate
- Most consistent habit highlighting

### Calendar View
- Monthly calendar display
- Visual indicators for completed habits
- Color-coded habit tracking

## 📱 Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive and works seamlessly on:
- Desktop computers
- Tablets
- Mobile devices

## 💾 Data Storage

All habit data is stored locally in your browser using LocalStorage. Your data never leaves your device, ensuring complete privacy.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the project
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## 👤 Author

**Sina Soroush**

- GitHub: [@sina-soroush](https://github.com/sina-soroush)
- Building modern web applications with React, Node.js, and exploring new technologies

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by modern habit tracking applications
- Neumorphic design principles
- React and Vite communities
